>> AND EXPLORING ART ONCE DEEMED
DEGENERATE BY THE NAZIS NEXT O
PBS NEWS HOUR WEEKEND.
>>> FROM THE TISH WNET STUDIOS
IN NEW YORK.
>> GOOD EVENING.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
AFTER DAYS OF INTERROGATION OR A
U.S. WAR SHIP, THE SUSPECT I
THE 2012 ATTACK ON LIBYA WAS
FLOWN TO WASHINGTON, D.C
AAHMED ABU KHATTALA ARRESTED FOR
THE DEATHS OF FOUR AMERICANS
CAPTORS TWO WEEKS AGO.
KHATTALA APPEARED IN FEDERAL
COURT AND PLEADED NOT GUILTY T
TERRORISM CHARGES.
>>> TURNING NOW TO IRAQ WHER
TODAY GOVERNMENT FORCES BACKED
BY AIR POWER LAUNCHED AN
OFFENSIVE TO RECAPTURE TWO MAJOR
NORTHERN CITIES TAKEN BY SUNNI
MUSLIM EXTREMISTS.
GOVERNMENT FORCES REPORTEDLY
MADE GAIN NEAR SADDAM HUSSEIN'
BIRTHPLACE
THE CITY IS WITHOUT POWER OR
WATER.
30 MILES SOUTH OF BAGHDAD, 2
IRAQI TROOPS KILLED IN A CLASH
WITH MILITANTS
THOUSANDS OF MILITANTS ALSO DIED
IN THE FIGHTING.
IRAN'S SUPREME LEADER, AYATOLLAH
KHOMEINI SAID THERE IS NO WA
BETWEEN SUNNIS AND SHIITES ONL
TERRORISM AND ITS OPPONENTS.
DURING A VISIT TO SYRIA RUSSIA'S
DEPUTY FOREIGN MINISTER SAID HIS
COUNTRY WOULD NOT STAND IDLY B
AGAINST GROUPS TRYING TO EXPOR
TERRORISM, IN RESPONSE TO RECENT
EVENTS IN IRAQ
TWO HOURS AFTER HE SPOKE A BOM
EXPLODED IN A MARKET IN DA
MASCIS KILLING TWO AND WOUNDIN
DUS DOZENS
AND SERGEY LAVROV ACCUSED TH
UNITED STATES OF PUSHING THE
UKRAINE GOVERNMENT DOWN
CONFRONTATIONAL PATH
RUSSIA WARNED SERIOU
CONSEQUENCES AFTER UKRAINE'S NEW
PRESIDENT POROSHENKO SIGNED AN
AGREEMENT.
ADDITIONAL SANCTIONS AS SOON A
MONDAY
>>> IN AFGHANISTAN, THE BI
EVIDENCE TALIBAN OFFENSIVE I
YEARS, AFGHAN OFFICIALS SA
DOZENS KILLED IN THE PAST WEEK
BY HUNDREDS OF TALIBAN FIGHTER
ATTACKS ON POLICE STATIONS AND
GOVERNMENT BUILDINGS
MOST OF THE ATTACKS HAVE
OCCURRED IN HELMAN PROVINCE IN
THE SOUTHERN PART OF COUNTRY
ALL THIS AS THE LAST 10,00
AMERICAN FORCES PREPARE TO LEAVE
AFGHANISTAN BY THE END OF TH
YEAR
BP IS ASKING FOR HUNDREDS OF
MILLIOS OF DOLLARS I
RESTITUTION.
IN FEDERAL COURT THE COMPANY
SAID IT MADE A VAST NUMBER O
OVERPAYMENTS TO BUSINESSES THA
FILED CLAIMS AFTER THE EXPLOSION
OF THE DEEPWATER HORIZON
DRILLING RIG AND THE SUBSEQUEN
OIL SPILL IN THE GULF OF MEXICO.
THE BIGGEST IN AMERICAN HISTORY.
THE COMPANY ALSO CLAIM
ADMINISTRATORS ALLOWED PAYMENT
WITHOUT PROOF THAT THE SPILL
CAUSED LOSSES.
DAYS AFTER A MAJOR LOSS AT THE
U.S. SUPREME COURT, ONLINE
TELEVISION STREAMING COMPANY
AEREO SAID TODAY IT IS PAUSING
OPERATIONS
ON WEDNESDAY THE HIGH COUR
RULED THEY VIOLATED COPYRIGHTS
STREAMING TV CHANNELS OVER THE
INTERNET WITHOUT PAYIN
NETWORKS
FOR THE RECORD, PBS WAS
PLAINTIFF IN THE LAWSUIT AGAINST
AEREO.
>>> AND NASA YOU'LLED A GIAN
HELIUM BALLOON TO LOSS SOMETHING
THAT LOOKS LIKE A FLYING SAUCER.
ONE OF THE GOALS OF THE MISSION,
TEST A PARACHUTE MISSION THA
SOME DAY COULD HELP LAND HEAVIER
SPACECRAFT POTENTIALLY WIT
ASTRONAUTS ONBOARD ON MARS
>>> AND NOW TO NIGERIA
A SEARCH FOR MORE THAN 200
MISSING SCHOOL GIRLS SEIZED TW
MONTHS AGO CONTINUES
FOR THE LATEST, JOINED BY THE AP
BUREAU CHIEF
WE'RE HEARING AN A CONTINUED
STRING OF KIDNAPPINGS NO
INCLUDING WOMEN AND CHILDREN A
WELL
>> Reporter: YOU HAVE WOMEN, YOU
HAVE CHILDREN, MARRIED WOMEN
WITH 3-YEAR-OLD TODDLERS, YOUN
BOYS AND MEN, YOUNG MEN BEIN
KIDNAPPED.
WE ASSUME TO BE USED A
FIGHTERS
THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON FOR
YEARS.
THE REASON THAT IT CAME TO WORLD
ATTENTION WAS BECAUSE OF THE
LARGE NUMBER OF GIRLS.
THE MORE THAN 200 GIRLS WHO WERE
KIDNAPPED FROM A SCHOOL AS THE
WERE WRITING EXAMS, AND THEY
REMAIN IN CAPTIVITY.
>> THERE HAVE BEEN REPORTS SOM
OF THE SEARCH EFFORTS ARE BEIN
SCALED BACK INCLUDING SOME O
THE DRONE FLIGHTS THE U.S. HAD
BEEN VOLUNTEERING TO LOOK FO
THOSE MISSING GIRLS?
>> Reporter: OF COURSE, WE HEARD
FROM THE NIGERIAN MILITARY TWO
OR THREE WEEKS AGO THAT THEY SAY
THEY KNOW WHERE THE GIRLS ARE.
BUT THEY FEAR THAT ANY KIND OF
MILITARY ACTION WOULD MEAN THA
THE ABDUCTORS WOULD KILL THE
GIRLS.
IN TERMS OF THE SEARCH, WE'R
NOT HEARING AS MUCH AS WE WOUL
LIKE TO HEAR
PRESIDENT GOODLUCK JONATHA
TRIED TO GIVE AN EXCUSE AN
WROTE AND AD PUBLISHED IN TH
"WASHINGTON POST" TWO DAYS AGO
IN WHICH HE SAID THAT HI
SILENCE REVOLVES AROUND TRYING
TO NOT ENDANGER TH
INVESTIGATION, BUT HIS
GOVERNMENT AND THE MILITARY AR
INVOLVED IN, I CALL THEM EVERY
DAY, EVERY SECOND DAY TALK T
THE PARENTS.
THEY ARE BEGGING THE GOVERNMEN
TO NEGOTIATE WITH THESE BOCA HAS
RAHM EXTREMISTS.
WE KNOW BOCA HARAM, TH
PRESIDENT INDICATED HE WILL NO
CONSIDER A PRISONER SWAP
SO YOU HAVE A SITUATION WHER
IT'S A TOTAL STALL, AND NOBODY
KNOWS WHERE TO GO FROM THERE
>> MICHELLE FALL FROM TH
ASSOCIATED PRESS JOINING US FROM
NIGERIA VEE VIA SKYPE.
THANKS SO MUCH
>> Reporter: YOU'RE WELCOME.
>>> AND NOW TO OUR SIGNATURE
SEGMENT.
TONIGHT, THE HIGH COST OF DRUGS.
IT MIGHT NEVER HAVE OCCURRED T
YOU, BUT WHEN A BRAND NAME
MANUFACTURER INTRODUCES A DRUG
THE COMPANY PATENTS IT
GENERIC VERSIONS COME ON THE
MARKET WHEN THOSE PATENT
EXPIRE, OR EARLIER, IF A GENERIC
MANUFACTURER SUCCESSFULL
CHALLENGES THAT PATENT IN COURT.
SOMETIMES, HOWEVER, IN ORDER T
AVOID A COURT FIGHT, DEALS ARE
STRUCK BETWEEN THE BRAND NAM
MANUFACTURERS AND THE GENERI
COMPANIES, AND AS PART OF THOS
DEALS, THE INTRODUCTION OF A
GENERIC DOES NOT HAPPEN AS SOO
AS IT MIGHT.
ACCORDING TO THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT, THOSE DEALS END UP
COSTING CONSUMERS BILLIONS O
DOLLARS A YEAR
NEWS CORRESPONDENT MEGAN
THOMPSON REPORTS
>> Reporter: IN 2004, KARE
WINKLER WAS DIAGNOSED WITH
MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS,
DEBILITATING DISEASE AFFECTING
THE NERVOUS SYSTEM
THE 46-YEAR-OLD MOTHER OF THRE
WHO LIVES IN CLARKSTON
MICHIGAN, STRUGGLES EVERY DA
WITH NUMBNESS, PAIN AND EXTREM
FATIGUE.
>> IT'S SO OVERWHELMING.
YOU WAKE UP TIRED.
AND AS THE DAY PROGRESSES, I
JUST GETS WORSE AND WORSE, AND
IT'S WHERE YOU COULD FALL ASLEEP
STANDING UP.
>> Reporter: IN 2005, WINKLER'
DOCTOR PRESCRIBED A BRAND NAME
MEDICATION CALLED PROVIJIG, ON
OF THE ONLY DRUGS ON THE MARKE
WITH MINIMUM SIDE EFFECTS MADE
BY A COMPANY CALMED CEFALON.
WINKLER'S DOCTOR PUT HER ON
HALF PILL EVERY DAY.
>> IT WAS PERFECT.
YOU KNOW
I HAD THREE YOUNG KIDS AND I
COULD STILL DO PRETTY MUCH
EVERYTHING I DID, AND IF I HAD
TEN THINGS ON THE TO-DO LIST,
COULD EITHER GET THE TEN THING
DONE OR AT LEAST EIGHT OR NINE
OF THEM.
>> Reporter: BETTER YET, WINKLER
TOLD US THEY WERE PROJECTED TO
GO GENERIC SOON, POSSIBLY WITHIN
A YEAR
THAT COULD HAVE SAVED WINKLE
MORE THAN $1,000 A YEAR.
THE POTENTIAL SAVINGS WERE
ESPECIALLY IMPORTANT, BECAUS
HER DISEASE MADE IT IMPOSSIBLE
TO GO BACK TO WORK AS SHE'
PLANNED.
AND AROUND THAT SAME TIME, HER
HUSBAND'S PAY WAS CUT, AND THE
FAMILY HAD TO DIP INTO SAVINGS
AND A 401(k)
>> THEN IT DIDN'T GO GENERIC
AND IT WAS A WHOLE DIFFERENT
STORY.
>> Reporter: NOT ONLY DID IT NOT
GO GENERIC, THE PRICE IN
EXPLICABLY STARTED TO RISE
>> IT WAS $6-SOMETHING A PIL
THEN $7-SOMETHING A PILL AND I
2010 IT HAD GONE UP TO LIK
$16-SOMETHING A PILL
IT WAS ASTRONOMICAL AT THE TIME.
>> Reporter: WINKLER'S OUT O
POCKET COSTS FOR A SIX-MONTH
SUPPLY WENT FROM AROUND $300 I
2008 TO MORE THAN $700 IN 2010
COULD YOU AFFORD THAT?
>> NO.
THAT WAS A CAR PAYMENT, AN
PLUS, AND WITH THREE YOUNG KID
AND, YOU KNOW -- FEEDING THE
AND I FELT GUILTY THAT I WAS
TAKING AWAY FROM THE FAMIL
BUDGET
>> Reporter: HER CONDITION WAS
GETTING WORSE, AND SHE COULDN'
AFFORD TO TAKE A HIGHER DOSE O
THE MEDICATION AND DECIDED T
TRY A LESS EXPENSIVE GENERIC
VERSION OF A DIFFERENT DRUG.
IT TURNED OUT NOT TO BE AS
EFFECTIVE AND MADE HER SHAKY AND
JITTERY.
HER REACTION TO NOT GETTING TH
DRUG SHE SAID SHE NEEDED -
>> THAT'S WHEN, LIKE I SAID, I
THOUGHT, HOW CAN THIS BE LEGAL
HOW CAN THIS BE -- IT'
DEFINITELY NOT MORAL
IT'S NOT HUMANE.
IT'S NOT FAIR.
>> Reporter: WHY HAVEN'T THE
GONE GENERIC, AND WHY WAS TH
PRICE OF IT RISING SO SHARPLY?
AS WINKLER DISCOVERED THROUG
ONLINE RESEARCH, THE COMPANY
MANUFACTURING THE DRUG WAS USING
TOO COMMON BUT LITTLE KNOW
BUSINESS STRATEGIES THAT CRITICS
SAY END UP COSTING CONSUMERS
FIRST, THERE'S SOMETHING
OPPONENTS CALL PAY FOR DELAY
HERE'S HOW IT WORKS.
ACCORDING TO THE FEDERAL TRADE
COMMISSION, WHEN GENERIC
MANUFACTURERS CHALLENGE
PATENT, THE BRAND NAME
MANUFACTURER SOMETIMES PAYS TO
KEEP THE GENERIC VERSION OFF THE
MARKET
IN THE CASE OF KAREN'S DRUG, THE
COMPANY THAT MAKES PROVIGIL PAID
A TOTAL OF $200 MILLION TO FOU
GENERIC COMPANIES GUARANTEEING
NO GENERIC WOULD COME TO MARKE
FOR ANOTHER SIX YEARS.
>> THE SIMPLEST LEVEL, A
AGREEMENT TWINE A BRAND EMPT
AND GENERIC COMPANY IN WHICH THE
BRAND COMPANY PAYS THE GENERIC
COMPANY NOT TO LAUNCH A GENERI
IN COMPETITION WITH THE BRAND.
>> Reporter: MARCUS MEYER IS A
ASSISTANT DIRECTOR IN TH
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION'S
BUREAU OF COMPETITIONS PAYIN
FOR THE PAY FOR DELAY DEALS IS
ONE OF THE FTC'S POP PRIORITIES.
IT BROUGHT A LAWSUIT IN 2008
ALLEGING ANTI-LEGITIMATE CONDUCT
TO PREVENT LOWER COS
COMPETITION.
THE CASE HAS YET TO GO TO TRIAL.
A SEPARATE CLASS ACTION LAWSUI
HAS BEEN FILED BY HEALTH PLANS
AND DRUG WHOLESALERS AGAINST
CEFALON AND THE FOUR GENERIC
COMPANIES OFFERING UNLAWFU
GENERICS FROM THE MARKET
JUST LAST SUMMER, THE SUPREM
COURT ISSUED ANOTHER RULING IN
ANOTHER FTC CASE THAT COULD OPEN
THE DOOR FOR MORE DRUG
MANUFACTURERS INVOLVED I
SIMILAR PRACTICES.
>> SO IF YOU CAN KEEP TH
GENERIC BRAND, THE BRAND CAN
CONTINUE TO MAKE ALL THE SALES
AT THE MONOPOLY PRICE AND STIL
PAY THE GENERIC TO MAKE IT
WORTHWHILE FOR THEM TO STAY OU
OF THE MARKET.
>> Reporter: WHAT IS THE FTC
SAYING IS AT STATE FOR THE
CONSUMERS?
>> BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
A STUDY IN 2010, STUDIED I
CAREFULLY AND IT COST AMERICAN
CONSUMERS ABOUT $3.5 BILLION A
YEAR
>> Reporter: DEALS LIKE THIS
AFFECTED THE ROLLOUT OF GENERI
VERSIONS OF POPULAR DRUGS SUCH
AS TAMOXIFEN FOR CANCER, LIPITOR
FOR HIGH CHOLESTEROL AND NEXIU
FOR HEARTBURN.
IT MIGHT NOT SURPRISE YOU WHAT
OPPONENTS CALL PAY FOR DELAY
DEALS, THE DRUG COMPANIE
DESCRIBE COMPLETELY DIFFERENTLY.
THE GENERIC MANUFACTURERS SA
THE NEGOTIATED SETTLEMENTS THE
REACH WITH DRUG NAME
MANUFACTURERS ACTUALLY SERVE
CONSUMERS WELL
HOW?
BECAUSE THEY SAY UNDER THOSE
DEALS GENERIC DRUGS HIT TH
MARKET BEFORE THE BRAND DRUG
PATENT EXPIRES, AND ONLY BECAUSE
THEY'VE CHALLENGED THOSE PATENTS
IN THE FIRST PLACE
>> DO WE WORK OUT A COMPROMISE
LOUDLY, I SAY, YES
>> Reporter: RALPH NOOEZ
PRESIDENT AND CEO OF THE GENERIC
FARM SICTAL ASSOCIATION.
HE SAYS THE SETTLEMENT HELPS
AVOID COSTLY AND TIME-CONSUMIN
COURT TRIALS OVER E THE DRUG
PATENT CHARGES AND POINTS TO ONE
STUDY SHOWING GENERI
MANUFACTURERS SUCCEED LESS THA
HALF THE TIME WHEN THEY DO END
UP IN COURT.
>> WE MAY HAVE NO BETTER THAN
50/50 CHANCE OF WINNING, MAYBE
LESS
MAYBE WE CAN PUT SOMETHING O
THE TABLE THAT WILL BE A BRIDG
TO A COMPROMISE.
SO IF THIS HAS BEEN PART OF TH
SUCCESSFUL EQUATION THAT HAS
GOTTEN AFFORDABLE MEDICINES TO
CONSUMERS SOONER
>> Reporter: OPPONENTS WOULD SAY
IF IT WEREN'T FOR THESE PAYMENTS
THAT WERE BEING MADE, THES
DRUGS MAY HAVE COME TO MARKE
EVEN SOONER?
>> ON AVERAGE, A PATEN
SETTLEMENT WILL GET THE MEDICINE
TO THE MARKET 60 MONTHS IN
ADVANCE OF THE PATEN
EXPIRATION
SOMETIMES YOU GO ALL THE WAY AND
YEARS SOONER, BUT IF YOU ARE
PRETTY SURE YOU CAN GET FIVE O
SIX OR SEVEN YEARS, IT'S BETTE
TAKING THAT FIVE OR SIX OR SEVEN
YEARS RATHER THAN ROLLING TH
DICE AND GETTING NOTHING FOR THE
CONSUMERS YOU'RE TRYING TO
SERVE.
>> Reporter: IN EACH OF THES
CASES, THE GENERIC DOESN'T END
UP COMING TO MARKET, MONTHS,
SOMETIMES EVEN YEARS, BEFORE
THAT PATENT IN QUESTION EXPIRES.
SO ISN'T THAT GOOD FOR
CONSUMERS?
>> WELL, THE FACT THAT THE
GENERIC COMES IN EARLIER COULD
IN THEORY BE BETTER BUT YOU HAVE
TO COMPARE IT TO THE LIKELIHOO
THAT THE GENERIC WOULD HAVE COME
EVEN EARLIER
SO TAKE, FOR EXAMPLE, PROBAJOL
IT'S TRUE THERE IS A GENERIC I
THE MARKET TODAY, BUT WE CONTEND
THAT BUT FOR THIS AGREEMENT,
CONSUMERS WOULD HAVE HAD ACCES
TO A GENERIC PROBABLY BACK I
AND THERE WOULD HAVE BEEN YEAR
AND YEARS OF SAVINGS THA
CONSUMERS WOULD HAVE ENJOYED
HAD THEY LAUNCHED IN 2006.
>> Reporter: BUT BECAUSE OF WHAT
CRITICS DESCRIBE AS THOSE PA
FOR DELAY DEALS, PROVIJIL DIDN'T
GO GENERIC AND KAREN AND OTHER
CONSUMERS PAID THE PRICE AND I
TURNS OUT SHE PAID EVEN MORE
BECAUSE OF THAT SECOND
CONTROVERSY BUSINESS STRATEG
THAT SEFALON USED THEN AND OTHER
DRUG MANUFACTURERS CONTINUE TO
USE TODAY.
SOMETHING OPPONENTS CALL
EVERGREENING
THE IDEA IS TO GET CONSUMERS OFF
THE DRUGS THEY'RE TAKING, AND ON
TO ANOTHER BRAND NAME DRUG THA
THE SAME COMPANY IS MAKING
IN WINKLER'S CASE, OFF PROVIGI
WHOSE PATENT WAS ABOUT TO EXPIRE
AND ON TO NUVIVIL.
COMPANIES SOMETIMES DO THIS BY
JACKING UP PRICES ON THE FIRST
DRUG
THAT'S WHAT HAPPENED TO WINKLE
WHEN SEEKING RELIEF FROM THE
RISING PRICE OF PROVIJIL
HER DOCTOR OFFERED HER NUVIJIL
>> I THOUGHT, GREAT.
HERE'S A SOLUTION.
CAME HOME, STARTED TAKING TH
PILLS TWO, THREE DAYS AND GOT
POUNDING, POUNDING HEADACHE FROM
IT, TO A POINT IT WAS ALMOST
LIKE HAVING A MIGRAINE
>> Reporter: THAT'S WHEN WINKLER
WENT ONLINE AND FIGURED OUT WHAT
WAS GOING ON
>> AND WHAT THEY WERE TRYING T
DO WAS TO GET PATIENTS OFF O
PROVIGIL KNOWING IT WAS GOIN
GENERIC SHORTLY, START TAKING
NEW DRUG, A NEW EXTENDED PATEN
PERIOD AND ONCE IT WENT GENERIC,
EVERYBODY I NUVIGIL WOULD NOT GO
TO A GENERIC DRUG BUT STILL ON
THE NUVIGIL.
>> IT'S RARE FOR PATIENTS TO
SWITCH BACK ONCE GENERIC COMES
INTO THE MARKETPLACE
IT'S A STRATEGY FOR THE BRAND TO
HOLD ON TO THE MARKET LONGER
EVEN AFTER THERE'S A GENERIC I
THE MARKETPLACE.
>> Reporter: THIS IS ONE ARE
WHERE THE GENERIC FARM
SUITCEUTICAL ASSOCIATION AND FTC
FIND COMMON GROUND
>> THAT'S KEEPING AFFORDABLE
MEDICINE FROM PEOPLE WHO
DESPERATELY NEED IT, AND WE'RE
VERY MUCH AGAINST IT, AND IT'S A
BIG ISSUE.
>> Reporter: SO WHAT DOES TH
MANUFACTURER SEFALON HAVE TO SAY
ABOUT THE TWO BUSINESS
STRATEGIES
THE COMPANY WAS A ACQUIRED B
TEFLA IN 2011 NAP COMPANY SAID
BELIEVING THAT THE PRO VISIT
IGIL SETTLEMENTS ARE LAWFUL AN
SERVED TO INCREASE COMPETITION
AND THE COMPANY INTENDS TO
DEFEND THEM VIGOROUSLY
IN RESPONSE TO THE SECOND, THE
HAD NO COMMENT
>> HI, BABY.
>> Reporter: WHEN PROVIGIL WEN
GENERIC IN 2012, THE PRICE FOR
KAREN WINKLER FELL FROM MORE
THAN $700 TO $16 FOR A
THREE-MONTH SUPPLY
WINKLER WAS ABLE TO GO BACK ON
THE DRUG, AND TAKE THE FUL
DOSE
SHE SAYS IT'S MADE ALL THE
DIFFERENCE
>>> HOW ARE THE COURTS WEIGHIN
IN ON GENERIC DRUG DELAYS?
WATCH THE HANGOUT WITH E
SILVERMAN OF THE "WALL STREE
JOURNAL" BLOC.
VISIT NEWS HOUR DOT PBS DOT OR
AND VISIT ABOUT DRUG PRICES.
>>> NOW TO THE ARTS AND A LOOK
AT AN EXHIBIT HERE IN NEW YORK
THAT EXAMINES THE NAZI'S EFFORTS
TO DO AWAY WITH CERTAIN WORK
THEY CONSIDERED DEGENERATE
THE NEWS HOUR HAS THE REPORT
>> Reporter: EMPTY FRAMES AN
FADED IMPRINTS AREN'T WHAT YOU
EXPECT TO SEE AT AN ART SHOW
BUT IN THIS GALLERY, THEY AR
AMONG THE MOST HAUNTING IMAGES
REPRESENTING THE FATE OF
THOUSANDS OF MODERN ARTWORKS
STOLEN BY THE NAZIS IN THE
1930s, DESTROYED OR REMAIN LOS
TO THIS DAY.
IT'S PART OF AN EXHIBIT CALLED
"DEGENERATE ART ON DISPLAY
UNTIL SEPTEMBER AT THE GALLY I
NEW YORK OFFERING A NEW LOOK O
ASSAULT OF MODERN ART BY THE
NAZIS.
THE 19th CENTURY PAINTINGS AND
SCULPTORS THAT HITLER LOVENE
AND ACCEPTED WITH ABSTRACT
MODERN ART HE HATED.
THIS ART HE LABELED DEGENERATE
WHAT IS IT ABOUT THIS ART HITLER
FOUND SO THREATENING
>> THREATENING WAS THE
INTERNATIONAL OR INTELLECTUA
AFFECT OF MODERN ART
SO IT WAS NOT SOMETHING WHIC
CAN EASILY UNDERSTAND.
>> Reporter: THIS MAN IS A
GERMAN ART HISTORIAN AND CURATOR
OF THE EXHIBITION.
>> THEY DISLIKED IT BECAUSE IT
WAS DESTROYING TO SOME DEGRE
THE CONCEPT OF ARTWORK B
FRAGMENTATION AND THINGS LIK
THAT, BUT ALSO ASPECT OF CONTENT
WERE IMPORTANT
FOR EXAMPLE, ARTISTS IN TH
PUBLIC, LIKE THESE, PREDICTE
PROSTITUTES AND WAR SCENES IN
VERY BRUTAL WAY, AND THE
NATIONAL SOCIALISTS WERE
PREPARING THE GERMAN AUDIENC
AND THE GERMAN PEOPLE FOR A NE
WAR AND, THEREFORE, REALLY
DISLIKED THAT, BUT THEY WANTED
INSTEAD OF THESE EMPTY WAL
PAINTINGS, FOR EXAMPLE, TH
HEROIC SOLDIER
>> Reporter: THE NAZIS PUT O
SHOW OF DEGENERATE ART IN TH
1930s TO SHAME ARTISTS AND
CONVINCE THEM OF THE PERVERS
NATURE
IN FACT, PETERS POINTS OUT A
NUMBER OF NAZI OFFICIALS
INCLUDING HITLER'S CHIEF O
PROBLEM GAND DA WAS HIMSELF
COLLECTOR.
MANY WERE FAITHFUL GERMANS AND
SHOCKED BY THE DESIGNATION
A SECTION OF THE GALLERY SHOWS
SELF-PORTRAITS OF ARTISTS LIKE
XPRES THIS EXPRESSIONIST WHO
PAINTED THEIR REACTION TO BEIN
CAST OUT
>> WHAT YOU CAN SEE IS THAT HE
BLURRED THE ONE SIDE OF HIS FACE
SO THAT THERE IS NO EYE AN
LONGER
HE ALSO BLOCKED HIS OWN HAND
BUT THIS IS THOUGHT OF AND A
SYMBOL FOR, I'M NOT ABLE T
WORK
MY HANDS ARE BOUND, AND HE ADDED
A RED SWASTIKA IN TH
BACKGROUND
FOR ME THESE ARE HINTS HE IS
REFLECTING HIS OWN STATUS AND HE
COMMITTED SUICIDE ONE YEAR
LATER.
>> Reporter: AND THEY EXPLOR
HOW SEPARATING OUT UNACCEPTABL
ARTWORK WAS USED FOR A
JUSTIFICATION FOR PURIFYIN
GERMAN'S SOCIETY OF JEWS
TWO PHOTOGRAPHS, ONE SHOWING THE
LINE OUTSIDE THE DEGENERATE AR
EXHIBITION AND ON THE OTHER SIDE
SHOWING A TRAIN FULL OF JEWS
ARRIVING AT AUSCHWITZ.
WHY THE CONNECTION BETWEEN THESE
TWO PHOTOGRAPHS?
>> SOMEBODY LIKED SCHINDLER,
ORGANIZING FOR HOLOCAUST TO FIND
A SOLUTION
DESTROYING GERMAN CULTURE BY
MODERN ART WAS HUGE BY THE
PERPETRATORS
THAT IS THE POINT I WANTED T
MAKE AT THE END OF OUR
EXHIBITION
>> Reporter: BY UNCOVERING THE
NAZI'S EFFORT TO CARRY OUT
ETHNIC CLEANSING, PETERS HOPES
THIS EXHIBITION CAN HELP GUARD
AGAINST SIMILAR FUTURE ATTACKS
>> YOU CAN QUESTION YOURSELF I
AMERICA OR IN GERMANY OR I
EUROPE, BUT YOU HAVE T
QUESTION, OF COURSE, THAT IN
CHINA OR IN RUSSIA WHAT IS THE
STATUS OF MODERN ART AND HOW I
IT ENDANGERED WHEN IT IS
LIMITED?
WHEN THERE IS CENSORSHIP AND
THINGS LIKE THAT
YOU CAN FLERN HISTORY AND
THINK THIS IS ONE OF THE MOS
TELLING EXAMPLES WHEN IT COMES
TO THE MODERN ART IN A SOCIETY
>>> JOIN US ON-AIR AND ONLIN
TOMORROW
RAP MUSIC LYRICS PLAYING A
INCREASINGLY PROMINENT ROLE IN
CRIMINAL CASES ACROSS TH
COUNTRY.
>> I CAN TELL YOU THAT IT'S IN
THE HUNDREDS
HUNDREDS OF INSTANCES.
>> HUNDREDS OF INSTANCES WHERE
RAP LYRICS ARE USED AT SOM
POINT IN THE CRIMINAL JUSTIC
PROCESS.
>>> THIS IS PBS NEWS HOU
WEEKEND SATURDAY
>>> WE WERE REMINDED TODAY O
THE WORLDWIDE APPEAL OF AMERICAN
POP MUSIC WHEN WE SAW HOW MUCH
TIME OUR BRITISH PARTNERS AT ITN
DEVOTED TO THEIR OBITUARY OF
BOBBY WOMACK, THE INFLUENTIA
R&B SINGER DIED LAT NIGHT AT THE
AGE OF 70.
HELEN CALLAHAN REPORTS
♪♪
>> Reporter: HE MAY HAVE STARTED
OUT IN AN OHIO GHETTO, BUT
WOMACK WROTE AND SANG HIS WA
OUT, RIGHT INTO THE ROCK AND
ROLL HALL OF FAME.
OVER THE PAST 50 YEARS HIS INS
INFLUENCES FROM SOUL, R&B AN
POP ARE ENORMOUS
HAVE VALENTINO TO THE SOLO
ARTIST AND AS A COLLABORATOR
WITH OTHER MUSICIANS
HE WROTE FOR OTHERS, TOO, AN
FOUND WORLDWIDE FAME WHEN HE
ANNOUNCED THE ROLLINGSTONES TO
RECORD HIS STONE "IT'S ALL OVE
NOW.
♪♪
LIFELONG FRIEND RONNIE WOOD LE
THE.
TRIBUTES WRITING ON TWITTER, THE
MAN WHO COULD MAKE YOU CRY WHE
HE SANG BROUGHT TEARS TO MY EYES
WITH HIS PASSING
AND DAMON, RECENTLY WORKED WIT
BOBBY WOMACK WROTE, I WILL SEE
MY BROTHER IN CHURCH
♪ WOULD IT BE YOU ♪
LIKE THE SKIES FALLING ♪
>> Reporter: THE PAIR FAMOUSLY
PLAYED TOGETHER, AND BOBBY
WOMACK TESTED EARLY ON BY DRUG
ADDICTION, AND AFFECTED BY
CANCER AND ALZHEIMER'S AND DIE
AT AGE 70.
HIS MUSICAL LEGACY GOES ON
>> THANK YOU SO MUCH
[ CHEERS AND APPLAUSE
>>> LATE NEWS BEFORE WE LEAV
YOU TONIGHT.
THE MAN SUSPECTED OF
ORCHESTRATING THE 2012 ATTACK IN
BENGHAZI, LIBYA, PLEADED NOT
GUILTY IN FEDERAL COURT IN
WASHINGTON TODAY
HE WAS FLOWN TO THE CAPITAL THIS
MORNING.
FOUR INTERNATIONAL MONITORS HELD
CAPTIVE FOR A MONTH BY
PRO-RUSSIAN SEPARATISTS IN
EASTERN UKRAINE WERE FREED
TODAY.
FIVE ROCKETS FIRED FROM GAZA HIT
ISRAEL
ISRAELI AIRCRAFT LATER HIT
MISSILES, MISSILE LAUNCHERS IN
GAZA
NO DEATHS REPORTED
THE PILOT WHO CO-FOUNDED
SOUTHWEST AIRLINES HAS DIED.
ROLAND KING WAS 83
>>> AND A SPOILER ALERT.
WORLD CUP FAVORITE BRAZIL BARELY
SURVIVED A ROUND OF 16 AFTER ONE
SHOT IN EXTRA TIME BY A CHILEA
HIT THE CROSSBAR AND ANOTHER
RICOCHETED OFF THE POST.
GOOD NIGHT